
# Instructions for Lab 04

For this problem you will complete the code for a bouncing ball
simulation. A series of steps are provided which should build you
up to the complete solution.

Remember that the word "design" means that you should follow [the
design recipe](
https://homework.quest/classes/2023-09/cs2381/design-recipe/).

If you start with code with an @author annotation and modify it, the
best practice is generally to add an additional @author annotation.

Note: ```assertTrue(false)``` is used to force tests to fail in the
starter code. You'll want to remove that once you have real test
logic that tests your code.

**Pair Programming**

For this lab - at least for the lab period - we will be doing pair programming.

 - Your team will work using one computer.
 - One team member - the pilot - will be at the keyboard.
 - The other team member(s) - the copilot(s) - will be assisting.
 - The pilot should verbally explain what they are doing before doing it.
 - The copilot(s) should provide suggestions and feedback.
 - If the pilot isn't sure what to do, they should explain where they are
   and ask for next steps.
 - After each step, a new pilot should take the keyboard.

# Problems


**1. Pair#swap**

Design a swap method for the provided Pair record type.

Examples:

```java
    var p1 = new Pair<>(1, 3);
    p1.swap(); // returns new Pair<>(3, 1)
    
    var p2 = new Pair<>("a", 5.0);
    p2.swap(); // returns new Pair<>(5.0, "a");
```


**2. Ball Movement**

Modify the ```tick``` method of BallWorld to return a new BallWorld
with a new list of balls generated by calling the ```tick``` method on
each ball in the list.

Uncomment the provided tests in BallWorldShould.java


**3. Out of Bounds?**

Design two methods of Ball: oobX and oobY. These should return true if
the edge of the ball will be out of bounds in that dimension (below 0
or above the max coordinate) after the next tick.

Examples:

 - A ball at 100, 100 with velocity 10, 10 is not OOB in either x or y.
 - A ball at 1, 100 with velocity 5, 5 is OOB in x because after moving
   its x coordinate will be less than its radius.

Uncomment the provided tests in BallShould#detect_oob.


**4. Bounce!**

Modify the ```tick``` method of ball to cause the balls to bounce when
they hit the walls. If a ball is OOB in x or y the sign of its
velocity in that dimension should be changed to send it back into the
window.

Example:

 - A ball at 0, 100 with velocity -10, 10 is OOB in x. Its new x
   velocity should be +10, which should be used to determine the new
   position as well.

Uncomment the provided tests in BallShould#bounce\_off_walls.


**5. Drop Top Half**

Design a static method of BallWorld called ```dropTopHalf``` that
takes a ```List<Ball>``` and returns a new list with all the balls
except for the ones currently in the top half of the window.

Modify the onKey method of BallWorld so that when the user presses
space all of the balls on the top half of the screen are removed using
your ```dropTopHalf``` method.
